For my final project, I want to analyse CTD (conductivity-temperature-depth) profiles in Terra Nova Bay and look at the properties of seawater in this region. The analysis will aim to determine the mixed layer depth in Terra Nova Bay and characterise its water masses. Terra Nova Bay is an area of interest, because of its lack of ice cover in the area (i.e. polynya), exposing relatively warm ocean surface waters to the cold atmosphere. The cold continental air creates sea ice in the bay, however, the polynya is maintained, since strong winds drive the ice seawards as it forms, maintaining the ocean surface's exposure to the cold air. This contrast enhances air-sea fluxes. Additionally the formation of ice in this region results in freezing-point, dense, salty shelf water, from which Antarctic Bottom Water is formed. It would be interesting to see how the water mass' characteristics, mixed layer depths and CTD profiles change due to the seasonal variability of wind forcing, and how that regulates air-sea interactions within the polynya.

I intend to use Python to import the CTD data (.cnv/.dat/.mat/.nc files) as xarray data structures, to plot salinity, temperature and density profiles, and to visualise any seasonal variations. I would also like to make use of GeoMappApp to look at the bathymetry in the region, and Basemap to visualise the mixed layer depths in the bay, and potentially the seasonal variations in the mixed layer depths. In addition, Basemap (or GMT) could be used to show some atmospheric data (such as solar radiation) to complement the observations in the ocean.